PRE  Okay, here I am, two days before the race, walking Rodeo to Blue Heron Lake in Golden Gate Park. I'm just going to reflect on what's going to happen. So, we are going to start around 10am on Saturday, August 8th, to do a 100 mile loop in the Headlands with a bunch of friends. And yeah, a lot of thoughts are going into this project. It’s pretty fascinating to me. I feel so privileged just to be able to plan this. It’s mysterious how I ended up living here in San Francisco, and you know, being involved in this community and progressively changing life and my worldview through endurance sports. And I, yeah, of course, love the idea of integrating everything in my life. 
So it's like, ideally, I will be living in a city where I can do the work that I am most excited about and cultivate the life that I value and that I love the lifestyle and that I will have the means to accomplish the goal. And I feel like San Francisco is like a very good alignment of those things. The ultimate example of that is that an event like that is possible, that I can run from my house across the bridge and then go to the mountains all by foot and 100 miles and then come back home. And in the city where I live and work and have all my community and so on. So I think this is very special. And I, over the years, I did variations of that. And I always love this concept. And this is kind of a celebration of this concept.
Then I realized, of course, I would love to complete it and I'll do my best and face this as a race and I'm ready to suffer. I'm ready to have joy and I'm ready to push my limits. But the journey is really very important. And it's like a lot of these are like quite cliches, but it's just hard to say in a different way. But the experience is very real of like in the process, both from the training perspective. And that means the meta training, which is like talking to the coach and really planning the block. And then actually training for it. But then all the prep that is needed for that, which involves a lot of friends and logistics and mapping and all of these things. So there is a component that's really the process and the team morale that makes those adventures fun for me.
And it's basically an excuse to put all of that together in a focused project that unites us and connects us and connects me with my friends, with my city and the nature around. And of course, with my limits, my body and my strengths, my weaknesses. And yeah, in a like centralized, in a single event that is a joyful one, that is an elective one, that is not something that was imposed to me by anyone. It is totally my choice to do, which it's kind of like the practice of it and all of the practice that is needed to then be able to do something like that and experience such an intense feelings and sensations altogether.
It's also an opportunity to really spend some time like reflecting about some of the things that I have just kind of started to realize after that chapter and last chapter of Michael Pollan's book, A World Appears, in which he talks about Zen Buddhism and Joan Halifax. And the kind of last chapter in his book about consciousness, talking about not knowing as a virtue and letting go of the self and everything, which is, I think it's really aligned with running, like letting go and just being in a state where you practice and it's painful and you keep doing it until you basically like cannot have any more resources to fight against what's happening and then you just accept and turn the page, turn a mode that is more on the acceptance side of yourself and everything around you.
And then I reflect that we're having a baby and she is coming pretty soon and life is going to change quite a bit. So there will be some time until I have the opportunity to do something like that again. And I'm not sure it will ever be the same with her. I mean, it will definitely be different just because how my mind will be, like where my mind will be and all of the other kind of things that are going to be there present, like sense of guilt, sense of fear that something could happen with me or with her that could impact her life. And yeah, just probably like just not having this additional thing, which is a pretty big deal in my life, would shape. Having a child will shape, I think, all my experiences in the future.
So this is kind of like one opportunity to experience something intense before all of these changes. And then there's no better way than doing a long run in my favorite places and then having this as an excuse to talk to her about this place, like how, you know, I end up here. So much why I ended up staying, and why, and what I love about those trails and this community, which I think it's going to be either manifested on me recording things or just collecting some memories and just talking to people about it.
I think I am afraid of doing this. The distance is actually kind of frightening. I thought this would be less frightening, but it is frightening. I guess, yeah, as anything for the first time, I haven't experienced a lot of that, a big part of it, what it's going to feel like, and I think until now I didn't have too much of a doubt about whether or not being able to do something well, and now I think I have, which is very exciting and is probably going to be more meaningful. At the same time, there's the fear of injury, and especially IT band, because last Sunday I had a little bit of a micro pain on the knee, and like all this referred pain along the week, which seems more stress and nerve related because of how it's fluctuating, so it doesn't seem very much like the other times, and I haven't felt like doing training on this block, any kind of hint that this could happen. 
So I guess my body, yeah, I guess there was a lot of additional things that kind of like tried to hook me on the fear. It was very interesting, like last week, there's always something, and it's like almost as if the body, almost as if the mind is saying something like be afraid because of that, and then it presents some possibilities like tendonitis on the feet, or cardiovascular issues, or tiredness, or fatigue, or you know, wildfires, or whatever. And it's like I have been like accumulating experiences that allow me to ditch some of that, and I'll be hooked right away, like for Broken Arrow, I was having this, for Big Alta I had like my face, like this like inflammation, and maybe yeah, this kind of like seborrheic thing on my skull, I could, I was afraid it could be like melanoma or like skin cancer, so I was thinking about that, and had this pain on my tooth, I was kind of radiating my whole face, and that was like totally occupying my fear, like it was related to that, and then it turned out to be fine, I didn't have skin cancer, the problem was really a broken tooth that then I was able to easily, it was pretty painful, it took some time to extract. And then before Broken Arrow it was like cardiovascular fitness and I was having some like anxiety, and I felt like, oh, is there a hard thing, and then I also didn't have an issue, like I ran the whole thing in altitude pretty well, pretty efficiently, cardiovascularly speaking, so, and then this time a heart came, I was feeling a little bit that fatigue, there was a little bit of a beginning of some like lip pain of this little thing that I have, inflammation, and none of that was kind of like sticking with me, so I was actually not biting any of these like produced fears.
And then suddenly I started having the little IT band, and yeah, the like tendonitis on the foot, I'm like, that's fine, that's going to go away, it's just like foot irritation based on the shoe, and so on, so I had, basically my mind had to come up with something that was going to hook me, and unfortunately it chose to do the IT band, and I got hooked, of course, because that's a really limiting and like debilitating thing, I said over and over that this is debilitating, blah, blah, blah, so it got me that one, and that was easy to bite, and that produced a fear.
And that's what I have been kind of struggling the whole week, is how real is that, is this actually going to impact my performance, is this going to show up at a given time in the race, and then from there on to be a decision of if I want to walk for another like 20 hours, or in pain, or if I want to like DNF, and so on, and when is this going to show up, and all of this fear that I had forgotten on this other race during this year, because I had something that hooked me, and they were not like concerning. So that's what I think it's like a little bit frustrating, it's like, it's really psychological, because there is no race happening, like it's, I mean it's really produced by the fact that I decided to do that this week, it's like, it's really related, those fears are related to the event, so of course they can appear randomly, and they can be actual injuries, and I had those too, but there is like a big coincidence when they come like so close to the race, you can doubt about it.
So it's just like, this makes the process less fun, because I just think I resist, and because it's not a race, I kind of give me the chance of, and because I'm not even very competitive, I give myself the chance to not go and do it, right, I can just like cancel it, so I think this goes against me in a way, because it's almost like by giving permission to quit, the fear is enhanced, because there is a signal that says, well, then quit, because it's actually real, it's almost like reinforcing, it's reinforcing the fear and the further sensation to, then it's like I'm getting close to winning this battle, and by not listening, it's also kind of scary and dangerous, because you're like, well, you should be listening, like that was a real thing, and like now, you stupid, you like didn't listen to this when you should, and now you're paying all the prices. The solution for that mentally could be just that I'm following a program. I'm like working with my coach. I'm following a program. I'm giving feedback. I'm having help. I'm trusting on the process. I'm not doing anything by myself only. I'm doing what I'm being told to prepare for this. So I'm like, in theory, prepared to do it.
But that doesn't fully... I just had a mini blip and I keep hyper focused on that. And waiting for this to come. Or basically waiting for it to disappear, hoping that it's going to disappear. Then I can focus on something else. What I wish I could do would be to like ignore letting that go and just be concerned when it actually manifests. Because nothing would be changed from today to tomorrow to Saturday based on that. Like nothing... If you don't have a full blown flare up, nothing will change. So why do I have to keep monitoring that much? I can't just like let that go.
And I think one thing that helped me quite a bit but I lost confidence is like on my first 50 mile I was having this like hip pain, inner kind of thigh up and it was pretty uncomfortable. I was like, this is going to show up in the race. How am I going to be able to sustain 50 miles? And then one day I was like, I actually considering to cancel it and let's not forget about that, right? Like I was really like considering canceling that race because I had so much pain. I was very insecure. Leading on the week I went to track, I talked to Mario and so on. And then I had some feeling. I was kind of like, hey, I want to explore that. I want to explore that pain. How far can I go? How much pain can I feel?
And I remember talking about that with Robbie like when I went to his place to drop some stuff he was screwing like this could totally flare up and I say I’m actually excited about that. I'm excited about enduring that much of a pain.
And I think that's the mentality that I have to go on Saturday. It's like I have these people and sure I said, okay, let's go to my house on Sunday. I don't have to finish that on Sunday. I can just fucking keep grinding it and like really dig deep and understand and explore the pain and like find problems, solve in different ways. Try to tape it with KT tape. Try, this way but, try to take like Tylenol. Try to like release different regions like my glutes, my hip. I can take like a bit of a longer pause and then continue. I can, you know, have different resources. I can, you know, even change the route a little bit. Drive down a little bit and then keep going on the flat. I can like have a bunch of options here and I want to do that.
I don't want to like say, okay, I'm feeling this. I'm going to quit. I want to actually explore that pain. I want to explore that feeling. I don't want to be, I need to finish by 24 hours absolutely. That's the goal, cut off. Let's say if it was a race it would be like for that much of elevation it would be like more than 30 hours for sure like 32 hours let's say. But then I can still keep doing it and finish at my own time and grinding it and have my friends there putting me really, if I really want to learn something, I got to keep doing it. I got to keep pushing, moving slow and grinding it and digging deep, deep, deep. And that's what I'm going to learn from. That's where I'm going to learn from. So I think that's the mentality.
I have been healthy the whole season. It's different than with the SF Rounds that I had an injury not too far back on the on the Lake Sonoma 100K. I was not training specifically for that. It was not my main kind of thing. Like I didn't train properly to be honest, like not much vert for that. Volume was like okay. It was super stressed out. And I was not into race mode but I want to be in race mode. I want to do my best. I want to be humble and try to do my best not to give any excuses and free myself from all of the you know all of the judgment and time constraints and so on to just like be there.
That's like a day that I chose for that. Those are my friends who are there for that. I don't have to overthink about Stef. Only of course the only thing that will undoubtedly change my mind and change the plan is if the baby comes, of course. And if Stef is feeling something that needs my support. Like oh man, I gotta go to work. No. This is my thing. It's my day. It's not too greedy. It's not greedy at all. It's just like a few hours of a whole life. It's like a day or two maybe three comparing like taking into consideration the prep leading to it that is like totally fine.
So definitely this should be a day to execute something that I planned, that I trained for, that I'm passionate about, that has a lot of meaning and it's an opportunity to find answers, to find things that I don't even know what are the questions. So let's keep that open and really try hard and be vulnerable and be okay if I'm not performing as I am expected to perform by whoever is expecting me to perform in whichever way. Like who cares? I would just do my best. I don't want to be like oh if it's not this, I'm out. Like this is not this is not one of these things. Like I cannot set for that. It's not a lot of times most times it doesn't go as planned. You have to adapt. You have to problem solve. And that's just how it is. I mean that's just the nature of it. Same with birthing, same with life. We have an idea and it can happen different way and then you can learn something different and it sucks. 
It's way more energizing exciting and fulfilling when there is something like that. Like when there is an actual like learned experience from that. So and of course it's very nice when things go as planned or even better when they go better than planned, but this is like a minority of the time. So today I'm going to try to focus on a couple of things, like this is a war, a battle. I have to dig deep. I have to be very calm and chill and enjoy the moment, soak, like energize myself with the trails, with that process and like really like flush out bad feelings and bad thoughts. Just keep moving and then like actually savoring the moment.
I mean, it's a pretty special moment that I carved for myself. So no need to rush, also no need to like stay still and not move, but no need to rush, walk whenever I want, run whenever I want, not take many risks, take like, you know, go touch the rocks, touch like the trees and like cross things. You know, wise way, observe where I am and not do like stupid little things just for the sake of saving like a minute and just going for it, you know, just going for it.
There is like nothing my in my training that indicates that I cannot do this. Everything indicates that I can. It's not a race. I don't have to push hard, hard, hard in terms of intensity. I can pull that back and I can control and I can like observe how it's happening. 
So yeah, and then once this is done, I can like focus on the baby more, put the training into standby mode, focus on some strength training, base building, and then think about the next challenge, which I want, I hope that I do something even bigger, even longer, like more challenging and maybe, you know, in the mountains or like longer distance and so on. So that's like where I'm at on Thursday, two days before on August 6th.


POST

Okay, today is Monday, August 10th, just one day after the 100 miler! Yeah, this was an insane adventure. I'm so happy, obviously, that all went well. And it's hard to start. I don't know where to start. 
I think, yeah, at the end of the day, I realized that it was an event to celebrate friendship. And I couldn't believe how special the people that I met here in San Francisco. I never realized, that I never imagined, would be my people, people from endurance sports, trail running. And, yeah, the beauty of the place we live in. But mostly really the people showed up. All these friends, Jojo, Jim Doug, Stef, Rodeo, Sara, Max, Eliza, Anna, Trillium, Jonathan, Andrey, Nick, Brian, Soledad, Margarita, Mathilde, Angie. Yeah, it's extremely special. Driving in the car, having the supplies, and most importantly, sharing the vibe and sharing the joy. Being there for you, cheering for you, cheering for me, really sharing this passion and valuing a lot what it is to do what we do, like taking it seriously. But at the same time, with pure joy, not in a stressful way. So, yeah, it's just incredible to be able to have done that.
And obviously the planning was very, very joyful as well, both planning the route and the logistics and having to call them beforehand and talking all the messages and all the intricate details of doing something like that. That's required multiple people to be basically 24-7 available. And not only available, pretty active, either facing on the screen or filming. So, yeah, it's just like incredible, incredible, incredible time to spend outside.
So, also, I have to say I was scared of doing this. I think it was the first kind of race or adventure that I was kind of nervous and scared about. About like kind of not knowing if I was going to be able to do it. And the fear, the feeling that comes to my mind is like, would I be able to do it? And if not, would I be able to ever do it? You know, like, am I the guy, you know, can I do this? And then the other aspect is the fear of kind of disappointing myself, but in the context of the people, like, it's not about the fear is not like, am I strong enough or something like that. It's like, can I do this? Yeah, something that I love and I would love to be able do. It's not like, you know, kind of a super competitive kind of doubt. It's more like I wish this so bad, I would love so much to be able to do this for some reason and to have this kind of intense experience that I know it would only be possible through something like that.
So that's the kind of feeling like really wanting something. And then also then the second fear is more like, would I, I don't want to disappoint myself discovering that I couldn't do it and also my friends. But not like, because they're gonna feel like less about me. It's more that we wouldn't have the result that we did, which is this incredible shared experience, which in any way would have been amazing if I didn't complete or something bad happened. It's just there is something about closing a loop that kind of makes, adds an additional layer of bonding. Because, just because we, I don't think it's about like actually finishing. It's about having like a point of convergence. It's about convergence. It's not about accomplishment.
And feeling, because we are all, we all know that those things are very hard and anything can happen. Like you have 24 hours, of course, so many things can happen. You know, you can fall, you can like not be able to eat, you can, you know, like imagine how many things can happen that would make you have to stop or interrupt or roll an ankle and break a foot. I mean, who knows?
So, we all understand that this is pretty hard and it's like very, just the fact of doing is pretty brave, trying is pretty brave and nobody's judging nobody if they don't finish more than themselves. So, but there is something about completing that is about convergence because then everyone is like, okay, we did this, we finished that. Everyone has partially a partial version of the story that is shared. Like we finished and it's like we all finished and we all contributed. So, we all converged to this like finish line. And we can tell that story to ourselves and to others. So, I think that's the fear of not finishing and then everyone will go about with their own experiences that will have some overlapping sharing things but would lack part of this kind of like bigger convergence. The fear is a fear or dispersion. 
And then a couple of other kinds of fears, I mean, to actually need in this case to, I, as you, as someone listening from this can recall, listening this can recall, on Friday I recorded. What I was feeling here and I basically said that I was gonna do it no matter what. So I was gonna dig deep and do it and enjoy that pain cave if I needed to. But I was afraid of it. I was afraid because I had committed. Once I committed, I was like, okay, then if it comes, I gotta dig and I'm afraid of what's gonna happen. I'm afraid of silly things, like not being able to finish on Sunday and then like Monday would be a horrible day to finish because it's Monday, everyone's working. I won't be able to talk to people. I want to enjoy the party after, which we timed perfectly. I also don't want to be in such a strange situation with no energy that if like Stef starts to have contractions, I am useless and actually a burden. So those were the fears related to that. 
And then the fear of feeling that pain, the IT band pain. So I talked to Nilcio on Friday night and that was extremely, extremely helpful. He was very encouraging. He said that what I was feeling didn't sound to him at all like an IT band syndrome. That was this like referred pain probably from the glutes. And he predicted that I was not gonna feel anything on the day. And indeed I didn't the whole time, not even a single moment. I did feel a little bit of still the referred pain and here and there a little like, hey, but nothing, yeah, painful, nothing that evolved. So yeah, that was, I had that fear, which was the fear that hooked me, like potentially not do it and accept and maybe say, oh, It's just a project that I'm doing, it's not a race. I can't interrupt any time like I did for the city 100K that my mindset was on that space. And then once I started to feel that pain, I basically stopped and it was still a beautiful day, but I was, yeah, I didn't have the day that I wanted out there. 
So, and then I had fear of what's gonna happen at night. You know, like how is the night gonna be? Like to run overnight, am I gonna be feeling sleepy? You know, what is that feeling? It was totally unknown territory. And I didn't predict it, what happened, which was more the GI issue, which is, it's interesting, like you always, there is always this case that no matter how much you wanna control and predict, there is like a big likelihood that what's gonna happen is something completely different, that you didn't predict and you can't control very well at that moment. 
Since I started ultrarunning, I didn't feel particularly inclined to do 100 miles, mostly because it involves like, yeah, it's a really endurance sport and it involves like a lot of non-running components. And I was not particularly interested in that. I was more interested in like doing races that I could fully run the whole time. That would be like, yeah, 50 miles, stretch into 100K, but more than that, yeah, would involve quite a bit of additional things, which obviously are amazing, but I was not particularly interested. And then funny enough, I started to be interested in the 200 miles distance because I'm like, oh, if it's for me to not run all the time, why only do 100? Then I could do like a really, really long adventure. But of course, I wanted to do 100 miles first then to see what it would feel like. 
So with all of these fears, I woke up feeling pretty good on Saturday with not much of the referred pain as usual during the week. And then I had a nice breakfast. I was very like, yeah, like nervous and fearful and excited. And I left 10 am sharp and I missed Jojo from the Rose Garden, probably because she looked at the original route and I took a little like shortcut to get there. And then maybe I got there earlier than she expected. So we didn't meet and I texted her, I called her, her phone was always on silent notification. So I was not disappointed at all. I was just, yeah, feeling a bit guilty for not waiting but at the same time, I was with all of these kind of fears and still a bit stressed and I just felt like focusing. Yeah, I had this like intuition that I needed to keep moving from the start, from like minute one. That would be my motto for the day. Like keep moving, keep pushing, keep going because it's such a long adventure that once you start like, you know, accepting some pauses that are not obligatory, then things start to like get a little bit out of control, 
So I was on a mission, I was focused and I kept running. And then I communicated the way I could. And then I met Jim after Park Presidio and we then went on a pretty nice run and then suddenly around mid Presidio, we saw Doug and Brittany and they were waiting for me there. And Doug came and started running with us and then we randomly saw Mark was just like doing his long run and I was so happy to see him, love this guy. We told him about the project. He was like totally blown away and wanted to run a bit longer. So he crossed the bridge with us and that's where Jojo caught up to us. And she was like super tired already because she was pushing very hard to get there. So then I said, I'm gonna go to the bathroom real quick and fill my water bottle and I'll be back. And then when I went back, I saw Mark but I didn't see the others. 
So I thought they crossed the bridge and they would be there waiting for me for some reason. But they were not there. But they were not, they didn't cross or maybe I thought they were like behind, like still didn't go to the bathroom or they were just gonna show up. I don't know, like in my mind, they were following me and they will keep tracking of me not the other way around. So I didn't think too much about it, but then when I crossed the bridge and I didn't see them, I tried to call Jojo, I tried to call Jim. I Texted the WhatsApp group and basically they didn't see for a long time, maybe 20 minutes. And I was already like up in the headlands and it would be very hard for them to catch up. So while I continued running at a pretty steady pace, and then I got over Rodeo Beach and got to the parking lot, didn't see Stef. So at that point, actually, I thought this was going a bit disorganized because we didn't have signal to call. And I thought I had planned well, so I started to really like blame myself for really not being more explicit. But for example, I could have like dropped a pin where exactly Jojo should be or Stef. But I mean, I called Stef and managed to meet her at Rodeo and then they caught up. And Jojo was so tired that she didn't want to continue, which is totally fair. She was like pushing so hard. So I felt really bad at that point. And I recorded an audio for her, I kept moving. I'm like, you know, she's going to understand and she's amazing. So kept running with Rodeo, Jim and Doug. 
At that point, I was feeling some pain like here and there, but nothing that was sticking. So it kind of distributed, which made me still fearful, like something was going to start. And then I had some moments of like, oh, here we go. Maybe not. So yeah, I was still not super relaxed. I think I got more relaxed when I got to Muir Beach. They were all right there. Sara was there. I think this is actually very important to have the pacer there, which I didn't think it made any kind of a big difference. But I realize now retrospectively that this is actually a real boost, which happened also for all the races that I was paced or crewed. The fact that the person is there ready to go with you is really powerful. More so than the crewing, like the pacer being there, it's not, of course, not in the beginning, but like at some point, like a bit further in the race, which is normally where the pacers would come anyway. It's quite powerful, I feel like. 
And I, yeah, I felt that way and kept going with Sara. That was a really nice time. We passed Pelican Inn. We passed around Santos Meadow and thought about my dad, of course, because Santos was his soccer team. They were organizing some sort of a concert there. There were some like folk instruments on the stage and some people. Then we climbe, pretty steady, slow-ish, kind of like not pushing too hard towards Cardiac. There was a bike race happening, so they gave some cokes to Sara and then we continued towards Pantoll and then we met Willis, kind of like almost at Pantoll as a surprise. And we got to Pantoll and all the friends were there already. That was really nice. Max, Anna, Eliza and Trillium were there. That was like a quick aid station. I took a ginger beer and then started going down towards Stinson Beach via Matt Davis and they were already there again with Jonathan. So that was a bit longer. I changed my T-shirt, changed my vest, put the vests, there were headlamps. I think at that point, yeah, I was feeling pretty good. 
It was starting to get hot and we had a long climb. So said bye to them and took it pretty easy on the climb. But it was very exposed, so it was a little bit hard. But then we got to Bolinas Ridge trailhead and then, yeah, started to feel more excited about Bolinas. I mean, yeah, at that point, I was starting to get more confident, at the same time a bit stressed about the night shift. 
And now it's where I understand that my brain is not super sharp, like why I'm talking now. Like I'm in this state of like calm and it's so interesting, like my whole body is activating in pretty random ways, like last night I had this night sweat twice. I woke up completely wet. I'm having like some weird like needle-like mini pains that go away very fast and whole body is like so activated in some different ways, but at the same time my nervous system is so relaxed. And I'm very calm. I'm getting here at Strawberry Hill now and feeling extremely calm and just like, yeah, in a happy and joyful state. And my brain is like slow-mo. And yesterday people were talking to me about that, but I was like, I don't feel like yet, but now I'm definitely feeling something. And it's like a good feeling. It's almost like, oh, oh, oh, you know, it's kind of an interesting feeling. Well, also feeling pretty good overall in my body, which is amazing. I'm not too sore. And yeah, with this walk up to Strawberry Hill, no problem. It's pretty awesome. Then I went back. So now we see what I just said, then I went back, like that was a random thought. That was a random thing to say because I'm going back home now. Yeah. 
So then we continue Bolinas Ridge. We passed by beautiful like forest towards pasture and the cows. And then Trillium and Jonathan were like in podcast mode. So I was having a little bit of time concentrating. So I put on my headphones and started to listen to some music. I think I listened to Criolo and Amaro Freitas’ album first. And it was pretty pleasant. I was like flowing well, feel like steady pace. Then we got to Bolinas and we saw a bunch of cows. Jonathan made a comment that he was excited to talk to his wife about the cows, because she loves cows and she loves to pet them. And he was like, no, you can't pet them because they are very dangerous. They actually kill more humans than sharks every year. And after he said that, like five minutes later, we saw this end of the trail was like a gate and like 30 cows, one puppy, and they were all looking fierce. And one man, and I was like, who is that guy? And it was Nick Lolli! 
Kind of like herding-ish, protecting us from the cows. Which was a very symbolic thing for him to do as he was like, it made me so confident, actually. It's like so emotional because it gave me a sense of like he's gonna take care of me today. And you know, the night shift is gonna be like taken care of by Nick. He's there, you know. So we passed the cows and I saw Andrey gave him a big hug also seeing Andrey. It's like also very protective because he is very experienced and I know he's like, yeah, it's fine, you can do this, fine. Pretty calm guy, like very experienced. He just looks like a trail runner pro. So I just felt very confident seeing him. And then I saw that Max, Anna and Eliza were also there super cheerful and excited and like, you know, their best energy possible always. And then, yeah, I was getting a little cold, but Andre was like, no, that's not gonna be cold on the other side. But anyway, put a vest and I packed a couple of stuff, distributed the weight and we kept going. 
And then was Max, Andrey and I for like six miles, pretty steady, little nice road. Andrey said that that's is where Mario do his workouts and we talked a little bit about movies. Asked them about Russia and Russian friends. Andrey, yeah, talked a little bit about friendships there. And then we met the others again to pick up Eliza and Anna and Max. Max stopped. And then there was not too long. It was a pretty quick, I think, aid station. And then we had into the longer part of the night. 
And then I was starting to feel a bit tired at that point and strained, not in pain, just like body a bit stiff and harder. It was getting harder to go uphill. I was still kind of like, okay, running on the flat and the downhill, but then on the uphill, I would slow down, but kept moving. Nice section, some like very isolated, maybe little construction areas. And then we passed this like magical campsites like Samuel P. Taylor. There was like this family cooking. No, that was maybe with Max before actually. This family, you know, cooking something that was like some fire, beautiful, like a good smell of fire burning. I thought about Stef. And I didn't think about it actually, but the obvious thing to think was, and that I probably someone made a joke like, don't be tempted to stop here and be cozy on one of these tents. But I absolutely didn't want to do that anyways. So kept going. 
Then with Eliza and Anna, it's just like their joy and their friendship. I don't understand most of what they say, but their voices are very soothing, and their accents are so beautiful. I don't understand just because it's just not because of them or their accents. It's just because yeah, on trails with wind, it's the volume. It's not like the way they say or anything. I can understand them in a normal scenario, normal situation very well. It's just like, but I love hearing the sounds that emanate from them. They are very calming and soothing. And so it was like a very good like combo of Andrey and Eliza and Anna. It was a harder section for me for sure. I was starting to get wet, like on my feet. And then Andrey gave good ideas about like changing socks. I also thought about like, yeah, brushing my teeth to do some palate cleansing. It was starting to get harder to put food in. So that's when I started to, initially I started with three gels an hour, 90 grams, and one salt an hour because the Never Second has already 200 grams of sodium. So I was doing about like 850 mg of sodium an hour. But at this point was the beginning when I was asking them to postpone a little bit the timing of the food. Instead of like every 20 minutes, I asked them, can you just time to every 30 minutes? And it was getting harder. I tried some blocks instead of gels and that was a bit better. But it was getting harder. 
So I stopped, changed socks, probably drank some San Pellegrino, some ginger beer, brushed my teeth. And I should have put every single aid station, I should put like a kind of a jacket because five minutes standing on the cold, on the night was not even cold. I got shivering. So I got a tiny bit scared about that. But then I put a vest and a Houdini and Nick’s gloves. When I met Nick he was all ready to go and we put some stuff on my vest, poles, and we started. I said, should I get poles? And it was very helpful that he said yes. So I took the poles and I think they helped on some of this section. And at that point I was tired. I was kind of like having a hard time to eat and that was about 2 in the morning. Well, it was very reassuring to have him. And then he was just like up front and navigating. It was a harder, slightly harder section to navigate because so many trails intersect and single tracks. And then I said, I ran him this idea that if we got to East Peak before the sunrise, we should just keep going because, I would definitely hit 100 miles because we took some wrong turns. So the East Peak loop would be less than two miles, which was probably what I was already adding. But that was kind of like me trying to do something easier, slightly easier. I said, maybe we should just keep the top of East Peak and just go in the parking lot and not that little lookout, which is actually the tradition. We should have definitely gone there. I mean, that's the whole point. That was the non-negotiable point, which was to climb East Peak at the Vista Point and lookout from the ranger cabin that we do on Wednesdays. But I was trying to make my life a little bit easier, because this was getting hard and long. And he's like, OK, let's do like that. If we see sign of sunrise, we go. If we don't, we skip. And I'm like, OK, fuck. OK, let's do it. 
And then I really started to struggle eating. And I basically asked him to space 10 minutes and then I skipped one hour for the first time. That was about like 3 or 4 in the morning and I couldn't even think about food, any food at all. And then after about like an hour, I started to be able to think about food again and that was a good sign. I communicated that with him. I said like, hey, I think I can ingest food now. No, I think I can think about food without almost throwing up. And I had some gag kind of like reflex. He asked me, is this a good sound? I'm like, no. So I definitely had some like almost throwing up, but it was dry. So the foods that I could think of were broth and I planned to do it. I talked to Stef, but we forgot about it. Chicken broth sounded nice, like sip on it. And yeah, that sounded nice. By the way, I should go to a pasta place tonight to have that, like a Cappelletti or Tortellini in brodo. So that sounds really delicious. Maybe Cotogna or Flower and Water. Anyways. So then the other thing was watermelon. And then actually I said, okay, maybe I should try to put Neversecond gel diluted in water, so I can like sip on it. And the taste that I got from that was exactly the taste of lime or lemon Gatorade. And then I remembered about Gatorade that I hadn’t pack it like I always do. I always bring it to races, because it's something very easy for me to digest. And it's always palatable. But I hadn't, I had forgotten. And it has good amount of calories. I mean, the non-electrolyte one. So it's good stuff. But the Neversecond mix with water didn't land well. So I told him about it and he communicated with the crew. And sodas, sodas too. Like I said, sodas, like sparkly drinks. 
So we kept moving and then we reached Collier Springs. Nick was like bothered by so many flies. He was eating flies and complaining about that was so funny in a good way. Like not complaining, just kind of commenting on it. Then he was using the poles and he was doing some like maneuvers. And I didn't understand what they were initially. He was actually like cutting the spider webs with the poles. So that's how like on a mission he was. So yeah, amazing time together. We talked a little bit, but I was more silent at this point. And then we reached Collier Springs and we did a loop that basically like circumnavigated the East Peak. And we came through the North and we reached this trail that was, oh, and then at that point we saw the sunrise sign. And then we said, okay, we've got to go. And I was feeling a little bit better at that point because we're going to reach East Peak. And I was excited about that. It was like a big milestone, 120 something kilometers. So that was fun. I was pretty relaxed as well at the time. I just felt like if I can’t eat, I have to slow down. I was not bonked at all. The whole time I was not bonked, but I consciously said I have to slow down my effort because I won't be able to keep up too many hours without eating. I would bonk. So I can't afford it, I recognize that I had ate very well for the past like 15 hours, 16 hours. So I had some reserve on me. Like, yeah, basically my glycogen levels are not completely depleted at this point because I ate well so far, but I cannot afford too long without eating again. 
But we were at East, getting to East Peak. We found the trail. It was like extremely steep, like a scramble trail. And we did it. It was so beautiful to do that at night. And he was like going, I was just like using the trees to pull and feeling so connected to nature and started to feel really like special at this point, emotional. Then once we got to the top of that trail, we looked back and saw the fog. So it was an inversion day. And of course, it's my favorite. That's the dream is to get to East Peak was the plan to get to the East Peak at sunrise with an inversion. So that was perfect. We took a selfie. It was a very exciting. I said to Nick, told Nick like this is a special one. You gotta go up. So we went and I was kind of moving okay downhill at this point. I recorded a little memo for the baby and I started crying. It was the first time I cried. It was really emotional. Then we came down to the parking lot and then we didn't need headlamps anymore. So we just like went down to West Point Inn and I told him about maybe it will be open so we could see if they have any sodas. I didn't have a cash. But anyways, the sun was really beautiful at this point, rising and the inversion was incredible from West Point Inn, the little hummingbirds. 
And then we got there and we were filming the view. At this point, I was like relaxed. I'm gonna go home. I know I'm gonna complete this. It's just a matter of time and it really doesn't matter it I take longer then planned. Who cares? Let's just soak in this beauty. That's gonna be way more meaningful. And then this guy, I spent quite some time there because this guy asked what we were doing. We told him. He was like, what the heck? You want something? I can give you some melon if you want. And I was like, oh my God, that would be amazing. And he had melons and watermelons. So I got to choose a watermelon. He gave me a Sprite. I thought about my dad. And then, yeah, it was very special to have this little chat. Everyone there, there were four people there and they were like, oh my God, that's insane. And that gave me some courage, understanding what the dimension of what I was doing. And then we basically we went down and I started to feel a bit better for sure. But still couldn't eat very well and I was looking forward to get to the Mountain Home Inn to drink some soda and get some Gatorade. So that's exactly what I did. 
We switch with Brian. And then got some Gatorade in, got a ginger beer, couldn't eat any solid, but that was good. And then we started to go, started to go down to Muir Woods. And then I was, my energy had changed. I was very sassy, bantering a lot, like kind of making fun of Brian. And yeah, feeling pretty light and solid. Just going down and going down the stairs, no problem. Like legs were feeling better suddenly. And then he's like, you gotta eat. I'm like, I know. Let's just sip every five minutes. You take a sip. And I'm like, okay, let's do this. And that solved the problem. The important thing is that when I talked to him, I described having this kind of wobbly feeling as if my stomach organs were kind of like loose. And that was uncomfortable to run downhill. And then he told me: oh, that's going to pass, that goes away. And the way he said it was like, oh, it sounded to me like, oh, I've done 100 miles and I had that this and that went away. So somehow it instantly went away. It was unbelievable. Like, that's really the power of suggestion. I was really in a state of openness. Just like living this moment with the best people and feeling pretty open. And just that went away instantly. That was a very powerful thing that happened. So I started to feel better. 
Muir Woods was beautiful. Nobody was there. All the redwoods. And we cruised there and started to climb Miwok. And I picked up the pace. I was actually pretty fast, put on my headphones and started to listen to music, probably Marina Silva, Feira de Mangaio on repeat. And yeah, just like cruising uphill. He was impressed that I was cruising. And then we went down. And then my mom called actually. No, my mom called when I was with Nick, I think, and told me it's Father's Day in Brazil. So I got very emotional about that. I didn't think about that planinh this event. So it was very special because this whole adventure had gained a layer of around the baby. So I really like started crying. Actually going down with Nick as well, started crying quite a bit. Very grateful. I like, yeah, stopped and thanked the pacers a lot during this run. And then with Brian I was sobbing, really like crying a lot. And he was just very supportive. And we kept running. I said, I'm feeling very emotional. I kept running, went down to Tennessee Valley, feeling pretty good. 
Saw Margarita, Soledad, Mathilde. Jonathan was there as well. Then, yeah, did the final t-shirt change. And refilled the Gatorade. Soledad time the five minute sip plan. I put on Taylor Swift in homage of Mathilde and started climbing Marincello pretty quickly and steady and feeling very energized and extremely emotional, because I was having a second wind. And it is a very powerful feeling when everything bad goes away. I mean, it's just keep moving. And it did work. And I was also not feeling any pain. I didn't even think about taking a Tylenol. 
Now, then like slowly the real world start to creep in again. Like, oh, I know I didn't have any knee pain here. When is it going to come? Oh, maybe not going to come. Like, you know, maybe it's going to come. So I had a little back and forth of that. But I was pretty happy. I saw Soledad opening her arms and Margarita like just cruising downhill. And I felt so like happy and ready to go home. And then we went down to the Hawk Hill parking lot. Jonathan was there with Peanut, his dog. And yeah, just the last bit of recharge. Crossed the bridge, saw Angie, Stef and Rodeo. I didn't pick him because it was like too much. 
Stef was looking so beautiful. This whole experience, like I just see everything way more beautiful at that point. Like really opening up and connecting with nature and connecting with the beauty, with the beauty of people. This was a run about people, about nature and about people. So I was basically just like, this is incredible. It's just beautiful. Even more than I ever seen Stef, with her smile and little new surprise kind of outfit. I love that. And yeah, kept moving. She had some Gatorade. We did the Gatorade plan. Crossed Presidio, cruised down, saw Jim again, same place that he had picked me up the day before, 24 hours before. Now we're back, Park Presidio. Doug suddenly appears again, filming everything. And just got to the park, finished 100 miles on the watch, kept, yeah, just running home and feeling, pretty great to got home. People were there and celebrated with a nice party. It was amazing. 
So then got home and took a shower immediately and saw some potential poison oak that I thought was on my calves and my feet, potential like toenail that was rubbing a little bit. Blister, which probably was gonna fall. But overall, I was feeling pretty good. That was nice. And then I finished my bath, my shower, and then Stef was there, just hugged her. I just told her that during the night when I was struggling on the uphill, all I wanted was just like to stop and hug her and lean on her. And yeah, that was like the only thought I had and it was so comforting to then hug her now and really have that time with her. I was missing her a lot. And then I started to notice that I cried. I told her about the how I was feeling. I was pretty much emotional at this point, still very raw. And thought about the Brian belly situation, cried, hugged her. 
And then I looked at my face and it was like kind of hot and with some rash and I thought, oh my God, maybe I have poison oak. There's some reaction here. So I did a little bit of freak out with poison oak on my face, called One Medical to book an appointment, but then it got better and I realized it was not poison oak. 
And actually then I started to reflect when people came over, we were having the party, ate a nice bowl of pasta that was very, very good. I started to eat food normally and I was just like shoving food down. And then, when talking to people, I realized what I'm training for since November, it's for that. I was very prepared. I breezed through this. There were high points, but I didn't have a very low, low point. It was a pretty comfortable fucking hundred fucking mile fucking run with 18,000 feet of elevation gain in the mountains. It's unbelievable. Like it's un-fucking-believable with all these friends. I can't believe. It's also a huge also redemption from the SF Rounds day. I was so well trained. That makes a huge difference to be working with Corrine. So I'm definitely gonna keep her and work on that and build up for the 200 miler. I mean, that's the next goal. And now, 
I didn't feel tired a few hours later, maybe like five or six, I started to feel tired. Then I had second and third meal. Around 7pm we had like another meal. And then I started to really feel tired. My body was just comfortably relaxing, tired. So we tried to watch a movie and basically fell asleep. Woke up a couple of times at night, completely wet. Body systems like adapting back. There's a bit swelling on my left knee, medial. Not knee actually, like the end of the tibia (which two days later this is gone). And it's just like, yeah, getting way less sore than I expected. Way less than 100K. And brain a bit slow, but getting back at it, actually. When I was finishing, I was feeling a bit averse to running and to my shoes. I'm still averse to the shoes, actually. They look disgusting. I'll have to get a fresh new pair. But the system is getting back on track, working. I can't tell how much this was meaningful, extremely meaningful experience. 
